# Hotel Bookings Exploratory data analysis

## Tableau Dashboard Link
https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/umerulla.belavadi/viz/HotelBookingsAnalysis_16992716461460/Dashboard1

## Project Summary
This is an EDA project which contains booking information of hotels. This dataset contains 119390 rows and 32 columns. The dataset has booking information for two types of hotels that is, Resort hotel and City hotel. The dataset has various columns that tell the information of total guests stayed, stays on weekend nights, stays on weekdays nights, the total number of adults, children, and babies, cancellation and non-cancellation information, repeated and non-repeated guests, lead time, Average daily rate, arrival date, month and year, different market segments, agent id, company, distribution channel, meal type, number of special requests, types of room booked and assigned, etc. The first step is to import important libraries that help in loading the data, manipulating the data, and visualizing the data. After importing the data, the basic information of the data is been viewed. Then cleaning of data is done by checking duplicate values and removing them, finding the null values and replacing them by the structure of data like filling the null values by mean, median, or mode and then altering the values of the column so that it helps in better understanding and at last various columns is been created that helps in analyzing the data. After cleaning and manipulation of data analysis is been made by plotting various types of charts and defining the analysis of the chart. At last, heatmap has been plotted to know the correlation between different variable

## Github Link
https://github.com/umerulla/Hotel-Booking-Analysis

## Conclusion
1.Most of the people around (61.9%) prefer City hotels over Resort hotels. City hotel generates more revenue than Resort hotel. The business firm should compare the facilities of City hotels and Resort hotels to bridge the gap between these preferences.
2.There is an upward trend in bookings from January to July and August and, there is a downward trend from August. The maximum booking is in the month of August. The hotels can add more optional paid services in these peak seasons to generate more revenue. In the month of September to December when there is a downward trend in bookings hotels can upgrade or renovate their non-booked rooms.
3.The top 10 countries from where the guests stay at the hotel are PRT, GBR, FRA, ESP, DUE, ITA, IRL, BEL, BRA, and NLD. The highest number of guests that visit the hotel are from Portugal. The hotels can add Portugal meals, advertise, especially in Portugal to attract more guests and can generate more revenue. Even the hotels can run marketing ads in these top 10 countries so that we can see an upward trend in the bookings
4. 72.3 %of people prefer to stay on weeknights, and only 27.7% people prefer to stay on weekend nights. Most people try to celebrate and enjoy themselves on weekend, so the hotels can add services like arranging parties, birthday and anniversary celebrations, optional tours on Sundays, extra discounts on weekends, etc so that most of the people will prefer to stay on weekend nights because they can enjoy their weekend parties in the hotel itself.
5.Around 96.1% of the guest are non-repeated. This indicates that there are a lot of new guests visiting. But, only 3.9% of guests are repeated. At the time of checkout, the hotels should take feedback from their guests and try to implement it accordingly so that we can see these repeated guests will increase gradually.
6.72.5% of people have not canceled the bookings. This is a good sign but there are 27.5% of guests have canceled the bookings. These numbers can be reduced by asking the guest's reason for canceling and offering them a discount on the next visit.
7.Agent id 9 has done the most number of bookings. Thus this agent should be rewarded so that the loyalty for the business will increase in the eye of that agent and thus he will maintain these good number of bookings
8.There is a negative correlation between ADR and total nights stayed. This means ADR does not increase when there are longer stays. The hotels should focus on guests with short stays to generate more revenue
August month generates the highest revenue. The hotels should focus on this month and the hotels can utilize these funds in marketing or improving their services.
